---
title: caring SG Commuters Public Transport Council and Land Tranpsort Authority
permalink: /assembly-programmes/cee-mon/
description: ""
---
Commuting essential part of our day-to-day experience; it enables us to work, play and journey home at the end of each day. From conversations with our commuters, we know that the culture of care among them is important. The Caring SG Commuters Movement was thus started in August 2017 to foster a caring commuting culture in Singapore. The programmes enable commuters (e.g., students and educators) to have the opportunity to learn how to help one another and make commuting more inclusive and caring.

1.	**Caring Commuter Assembly Talk** (for Primary 4 students – Primary 6 students) The assembly talk broadly covers the origins of the Caring Commuter Champion programme (mentioned below), the inclusive features and infrastructure on public transport, and how students can be a caring commuter. The talk is conducted by officers from the Caring SG Commuters Committee.  The talk is adapted for upper primary school students.   


2.	**'Why Should I Care’ Programme** (for Primary 4 students and above) Students participating in the ‘Why Should I Care’ Programme will get to hear from our partners on how commuters with different abilities navigate the public transport system, and also attend an experiential workshop. For example, Republic Polytechnic conducted ‘Project CompassioNATION’ for participants experience how commuting is like for commuters who face different challenges. The session can be tweaked based on the needs of the participants and level of participant involvement. The programme runs from January to October.


3. **CARE Ride Project** (for Primary 5 students and above) Students and educators participating in this project can look forward to opportunities for inter-generational, as well as learning more about the needs of senior commuters. The projects aim to help participant become more aware and mindful of senior commuters in their midst, as well as how we can help them, thereby developing greater empathy and a willingness to help. This makes bus rides more inclusive, joyful, and welcoming for all. As part of CARE Ride, students and educators will also get to take part in an empathy workshop, e.g., the Public Bus Inclusivity Course (PBIC) conducted by Tower Transit Singapore, where they will learn how to help fellow commuters on public buses. It will equip them with awareness about the needs of vulnerable commuters, basic knowledge in assisting such commuters, and soft skills such as assisting others.   


4. **CARE by [School Name] Project** (for Secondary school students and above) Students and educators will get first-hand experience to interact with vulnerable commuters in groups of four to five. Students are given the opportunity to display the Four Caring Norms (Give Care, Give Time, Give a Hand and Give Thanks) in various scenarios. For example, they may help vulnerable commuters’ (e.g., seniors) to carry groceries and bags during their last-mile travel from MRT stations, integrated transport hubs and bus interchanges. During the journey, students will have the opportunity to bond and empathise with vulnerable commuters. This will help students to better understand the travel needs and challenges of vulnerable commuters, as well as develop greater empathy and situational awareness.

5. **Caring Commuter Champions** (for Secondary school students and above) The Caring Commuter Champion programme is a ~45-minute e-learning course which aims to educate participants on how to be a caring commuter during their public transport journey. The course aims to equip participants with knowledge about the needs of various groups of vulnerable commuters (e.g., blind/visually impaired, Deaf/Hard-of-Hearing, seniors with dementia, invisible medical conditions) and how to interact with and help appropriately and safely through the three ‘A’s of Assess, Ask and Assist.  Participants will receive a Caring Commuter Champion badge and an e-certificate upon successful completion of the course.  Upon certification as Caring Commuter Champions, the school can propose a related Values-in-Action (VIA) or co-creation project with the Caring SG Commuters Committee for student Champions, to raise awareness on fostering a caring commuting culture (including the Four Caring Norms of Give Care, Give Time, Give a Hand and Give Thanks) or put the Four Caring Norms and aforementioned three ‘As’ into action through helping or guiding vulnerable commuters to get to their destination.


Both students and educators will be able to:  
* Better understand the travel needs of different groups of commuters, for example seniors and persons with disabilities (PWDs), so that they can be more mindful and confident when offering help to them on the public transport. 
* Develop greater empathy and situational awareness